First draft practice interviewing (#231)
CodeYourFuture/CYF-Workshops: interviewing/readme.md

# Interviewing 🧑‍💻

> Acing job interviews is a skill that can be learned like any other. Today we will pair up to practice interviewing.

Reviewer: How long is this workshop? 60 minutes? 15 minutes per activity plus 5 minutes transition times?

Author: Yes, 60 minutes is what I was thinking:
- 15 minutes Stage 1: introduce yourself -  5 minutes craft intro, 2x2 minutes sharing intros, 5 minutes feedback
- 15 minutes Stage 2: soft skills questions - not expecting them to get through all the questions
- 15 minutes Stage 3: technical questions - goal here is to get them to start looking at technical questions, test their knowledge, and practice what they will say when they do not know an answer
- 15 minutes introducing the workshop, transition times and answering reflection questions at the end

## Objective 💬

At the end of this workshop, participants can:

- [] Introduce themselves in 2 minutes
- [] Answer soft skill interview questions using the STAR method
- [] Prepare a strategy to get ready for  technical interviews

## Setup 🌼

- Pair up into groups of 2-3

## Stage 1: Introduce Yourself 🙆

In almost every interview, the interviewer will ask you to introduce yourself. The goal is to give the interviewer a snapshot of who you are, your professional background, and why you're a good fit for the role. Take 5 mins to craft a compelling narrative. 

Some tips:
- Your response should be 1-2 minutes

> - Try to structure your response, as an example the Present-Past-Future model:

Reviewer: This could be a good energiser too. Could you contribute it here? https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/curriculum/tree/main/common-content/en/energisers

Author: Added [here](https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/curriculum/pull/917). I changed the energiser to be a 30 second elevator pitch due to time constraints.

    - Present: Start by briefly mentioning your current role or what you are doing at the moment (education, job, etc.), and give an overview of your responsibilities.
    - Past: Mention your relevant experience, skills, or education. Focus on achievements and how they shaped your current professional identity.
    - Future: Highlight what you want to do next and why you’re excited about this opportunity.
- Try to be enthusiastic, let your personality and confidence shine
- Do not overwhelm your interviewer with too much information
- Allow 1-2 minutes for follow-up questions

After the 5 minutes are up take turns practicing your introductions. While the other person is introducing themselves, put yourself in an interviewers shoes. Share what the other person did well and what they could improve.

## Step 2: The Soft Skills Interview 🥎 

> Soft skill interview questions are typically asked at some point during the interview process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Soft skill interview questions are typically asked at some point during the interview process. 
```

If it's a new paragraph, put a full line return between each paragraph.

> A common technique to answer these questions is to use the [STAR method](https://ca.indeed.com/career-advice/interviewing/star-interview-method) which stands for Situation, Task, Action and Result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Answer these questions with the [STAR method](https://ca.indeed.com/career-advice/interviewing/star-interview-method) which stands for Situation, Task, Action and Result.
```

Be clearer, be bolder. It's ok to say what the right answer is. It's helpful.

“Can you tell me about a time when you had to work in a team and faced a challenge?”

> - <strong> Situation </strong>: "During my final group project, we had to develop a mobile app for managing student assignments. Midway through the project, we hit a roadblock because two teammates disagreed on which framework to use—one preferred React Native, while the other wanted to stick with Flutter. This was causing delays in our progress.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <strong> Situation </strong>: "During my final group project, we had to develop a mobile app for managing student assignments. Midway through the project, we hit a roadblock because two teammates disagreed on which framework to use: one preferred React Native, while the other wanted to stick with Flutter. This was causing delays in our progress.”
```

- <strong> Task </strong>: “As the team lead, my task was to resolve the conflict and ensure we stayed on schedule.”
- <strong> Action </strong>: “I organized a meeting to discuss the pros and cons of both frameworks, focusing on performance and our project requirements. After evaluating, I suggested using React Native because it allowed us to quickly integrate with the backend we’d already built. The teammate supporting Flutter agreed once we reviewed the long-term benefits.”

> - <strong> Result </strong>: “We moved forward with React Native, completed the app on time, and received positive feedback from our professor for both functionality and performance. It also helped the team work more smoothly on future features.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <strong> Result </strong>: “We moved forward with React Native, completed the app on time, and received positive feedback from our teachers for both functionality and performance. It also helped the team work more smoothly on future features.”
```

> Discuss how you might answer the following questions in a real interview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Discussion, 10 minutes

Discuss how you might answer the following questions in a real interview.
```

- Tell us about a time you missed a deadline.
- What was your favorite project you have worked on so far.
- When was a time you failed.
- Tell us about a time you had to help your team members through a tough time. 
- Tell me about a time you prioritised your time well, despite having multiple deadlines.
- Tell me about a time you solved a problem at work.
- How do you teach your colleagues about new practices within the company?
- Tell me about a time when things didn't go according to plan. How did you deal with it?
- What is your response when a colleague disagrees with you?
- Share a time you set a goal and achieved it.

> ## Step 3: The Technical Interview 📞

Reviewer: How long should they spend asking each other? Who will say when the time is up?

Timing sessions is super important or the day descends into chaos.

Author: The facilitator should keep track of time and say when the participants should move on to the next section. I have added times to each stage

Pick any technical topic such as Javascript, Python, SQL, databases, etc. and search for the Top 50 beginner interview questions for that topic. Read through the list together. Discuss if there are any surprises in there. Which questions did you find easy and which ones did you find difficult? Try asking each other a couple questions and see if you can answer them.

> Some tips for technical interviews:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Some tips for technical interviews:
```

> - Think out loud, walk the interviewer through your thought process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Think out loud: walk the interviewer through your thought process.
```

- Interviewers do not expect you to know everything. Be honest when you do not know something.
- If you do not understand something, ask questions!

> - Practice, practice, practice

Reviewer: Let's also get a summary at the end. How will we complete this workshop? What are the takeaways? Where should we go to learn more and practice what we have learned?

Add in 2-3 summary sentences and then a takehome task like "book a call to practice an interview by the end of this week" "volunteer to act as interviewer by the end of this sprint" etc

Author: Added 🚀
